ACS Calender Extention

Description : This is a way for students to quickly open up their schedule with the click of one button

Purpose and Motivation - What are you hoping to accomplish with this project? Why does it exist? I like making things more efficient and when we got a google calender I knew that was a step in the right direction but I wanted to build apon that and make it even easier to open up your schedule. I thought of when I was a freshman and I would constantly show up in the wrong class and get a tardy and wanted to provide the best soulution I possibly could.

Demo Currently this is the layout I have made but I think the closer and closer I get to finishing it will look much different as I hope to have the blocks interchangable so the next class is always at the top. Picture of Icon and Layout

Technologies Used I used Atom to make all of this code come to life which is just my prefered coding software I also used XAMPP to test out the server side and build with that using my local server, this allowed me to essentially run a working version of my project without having to buy a domain name yet and deal with that new learning. In terms of resources there was a lot to HTML and CSS I did not know and I mainly used W3 Schools to deal with those issues and if I couldnt find my anwser there I would go on stackflower and if I even couldnt find it there I would simpley talk to people on redit about what Im doing and see their imput. Since there were so many resources out there it was much easier to learn HTML and CSS. My biggest trouble was learning PHP, it was truely like learning a new language to how different it is which ofcourse it should be because they deal with a whole other part of project. For that I took a course called PHP Essential Training which helped me get down the basics so I wasnt completley lost in the process. Since I am also working with google I used their Intro file and guide to learn how to make the extention in the first place and how to connect to their Calender which also required a guide from google.

Limitations or other unique aspects I ran into multiple problems, like for example I updated to MacOS beta which XAMPP didnt support so I had to shift all of my files to a separate computer but I didnt move them I made a copy so when XAMPP supported it again I moved it back and github was looking fro the wrong files because they werent where they should be. In that process I also lost the most up to date file that had the user imput so it could identify whose scheduale its looking for. I made 1-3 different repositories because I couldnt figure out which is the latest copy of the code. I also ran into issues with switching where we are aquiring our data from, from a small forum to getting it from powerschool and landed on google calender which resulting in working in 2-3 directions around 60%-70% of the time. Limitation of direction is something I really struggled with and if I didnt have my backround in coding I wouldnt have been able to "guess" the direction Im heading in so accuratly.

Technical Description This is spesificly targeted to ACS and/or schools that use google calender so you will need a compatable school calender as well as google chrome. Besides that I expect to have it running as an extention in the google play store so anyone can download it but their ability to use it is limited based on those things.

Websites used https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37721426/how-to-get-the-unique-user-id-in-a-chrome-extension-using-oauth https://developer.chrome.com/webstore/identify_user https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/mv2/getstarted/ https://www.lynda.com/PHP-tutorials/PHP-Essential-Training/ https://developers.google.com/calendar/overview https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_layout.asp
